Signal
======

This project is currently a scratchpad for research relating to synthesisers
and DSP, code named "Signal".

Current Goals
-------------

* Build a framework for realtime audio synthesis with midi input
* Research tools and techniques that will enable the framework

Resources
---------

### PortAudio

Realtime audio libraries. I'm using the following Ubuntu packages for PA:

    libportaudio0	
    libportaudio2	
    libportaudiocpp0
    portaudio19-dev	

### PortMIDI

Realtime MIDI libraries. I've built this from the source in the SVN repository at:

    https://portmedia.svn.sourceforge.net/svnroot/portmedia

It comes with a program called `pmdefaults` (built in the "Release" directory
with the other binaries) which allows you to select your default devices and
saves it to a prefs file in ~/.java/.userPrefs/PortMidi/prefs.xml.

Before you use the `pmdefaults` program or other portmidi executables, you need
to set the library path to the "Release" directory. Put this in your .bashrc
file (adjusted for your correct path, of course):

    LD_LIBRARY_PATH=$HOME/src/portmedia/portmidi/trunk/Release/

### FLTK

Fast Light ToolKit--A GUI library for C++ that is extremely lightweight and fast.

I've built this from source as well, from the SVN repository at:

    http://svn.easysw.com/public/fltk/fltk/branches/branch-1.3

### Synthesis Toolkit

The Synthesis Toolkit is a set of synth libraries from CCRMA. I have not
incorporated these into the project yet, but that is one of the next steps.

STK uses rtaudio and rtmidi instead of portaudio and portmidi, so we'll need to
look at those.

### Pthreads

POSIX Threads.

Good tutorial: https://computing.llnl.gov/tutorials/pthreads/

### Other

* Csound: we tried to get this to work, but have concluded that it's not really
  made for the type of embedding inside another program that we would need it
  to do. We may come back to this at some point, but for now it's dead.

Code
----

### building scripts

The names say it all. You run them like `./build_with_whatever something.cpp`,
and that will output the program `something`.

* `build_with_pa_pm_and_fltk`
* `build_with_pa_and_fltk`
* `build_with_csound`

### `synth-test`

Builds on `portaudio-test` to create an extremely basic midi synth. PortMIDI is
used for MIDI input, which is passed to the saw-wave generator from the
`portaudio-test` example, and/or passed through to the selected midi-out
device. Use the `pmdefaults` program to select your midi devices.

### `portaudio-test`

A simple saw-wave generator using PortAudio for output and a FLTK button to
stop and start it.

### `fluid-test`

The Fluid-generated FLTK UI template that was used to create synth-test.
